V2 Phase 1
1. Establish the complete project foundation and development environment from scratch.
Begin by creating a new GitHub repository with a professional README that clearly states the single core feature (end-to-end AI agent micropayment flow) and Round 2 requirements; then run “algokit init” to generate the full-stack boilerplate including Python backend, React frontend stub, and Testnet config; finally install every required dependency in one go (algokit, py-algorand-sdk, x402-sdk, langchain, google-generativeai, ipfshttpclient, fastapi, pytest, python-dotenv) so the entire team can start coding immediately with zero setup friction.


To-Do:
1. Create the GitHub repository.
Go to github.com → New repository → Name it exactly “mercator” → Make it Public → Add a .gitignore for Python → Create repository (do NOT initialize with README yet).
2. Create a professional README.md file with Round 2 focus.
Open README.md and write: Project title “Mercator – AI Agent Micropayment Marketplace (AlgoBharat Round 2)”, one-sentence core feature description (“End-to-end flow: Human uploads trading insight → AI agent discovers → x402 micropayment on Algorand → instant content delivery”), mention “Agentic Commerce track”, “Single core feature only”, “Fully working product on Testnet”, and add sections “How to Run Demo” (placeholder for later) and “Tech Stack”.
3. Install AlgoKit globally (if not already installed).
Run pip install algokit (or brew install algokit on Mac) then verify with algokit --version to confirm you have the latest supported version.
4. Run the official AlgoKit initialization command.
Execute algokit init --template fullstack --name mercator—frontend react --backend fastapi --network testnet (this generates the complete boilerplate with Python backend, React frontend stub, and Testnet configuration in one go).
5. Verify the generated project structure.
Check that you now have these folders/files: /backend, /frontend, algokit.toml, .env.example, requirements.txt, and README.md updated by AlgoKit — if anything is missing, re-run the init command with correct flags.
6. Create and activate a Python virtual environment.
Run python -m venv venv then activate it (source venv/bin/activate on Mac/Linux or venv\Scripts\activate on Windows) so all packages stay isolated.
7. Install all required dependencies in a single command.
Run this exact one-liner:
pip install algokit py-algorand-sdk x402-sdk langchain google-generativeai ipfshttpclient fastapi uvicorn pytest python-dotenv python-multipart
(this installs every package mentioned in the roadmap at once).
8. Copy and configure the environment variables file.
Copy .env.example to .env, then add placeholder lines: ALGOD_TESTNET_URL=, GEMINI_API_KEY=, PINATA_JWT=, X402_PRIVATE_KEY= (you will fill real values in later steps — leave them blank for now).